The Normality Simulator
==============

For my interactive experience, I chose to create a jQuery experience that simulates a web browser with an AI named Blackbox that has a voice similar to Hal 9000’s. This interactive project is a possible representation of what it could have been or could become in the future. As such, Blackbox, in the context, has been created to assist humans with browsing the internet. Its purpose is simple: to keep the humans from searching inappropriate subjects.

The idea popped into my mind a while back at the beginning of Facebook. Long before the new algorithms and such security measures, there was a pornographic video that older people were sharing for denunciating this kind of content on popular websites like Facebook. What they did not know, is that by sharing it, they just boarded the train altogether and made the video even more visible for anyone. Sadly, this problem will never go away. The whole problem is essentially related to the human’s vast curiosity. Yes, the algorithms on Facebook, or YouTube as James Bridle mentioned in his essay, are not doing their job perfectly. In fact, we cannot rely on some man made construct to try to camouflage to real problem that is the human’s curious nature and the perversion in some people that taints the web as well as innocent people with their inappropriate content. No matter what people would do to protect others from inappropriate content, there will always be someone who will succeed in defeating security. As always, and over time, tools will probably allow people without technical knowledge to do research that would not be politically correct. For example, there are now tools for common mortals to create websites when it was once necessary to be knowledgeable in web development to create some. At last, we should try to frame and diminish the problem at its source by educating people not to share improper subjects and report people who post that kind of subjects online.

Accordingly, my interactive experiment was to get back on this whole idea and introduce a bit of humor when the user tries to search for a word out of line only to be verbally reprimanded, being publicly shamed or even summoned for a psychological examination by the AI. In addition, I liked the idea of adding examples of good searches, like trying to brainwash people in doing what is right.

Let us just hope that the internet will not suffer the same polluted fate as our planet and that things will go for the better in the future!
